README.md, before:

# iChat

An iMessage-style whisper client for World of Warcraft.

Replace the default whisper system with a modern messaging UI featuring chat bubbles, conversation threads, emoji, notification sounds, and more.

![Promo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/promo.png)

![Classic Era: 11508](https://img.shields.io/badge/Classic_Era-11508-yellow) ![TBC Anniversary: 20505](https://img.shields.io/badge/TBC_Anniversary-20505-blue) ![Retail: 120001](https://img.shields.io/badge/Retail-120001-green) ![Version: 1.3.2](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.3.2-lightgrey)

### Screenshots

<p>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/screenshots/main.png" width="180" alt="Conversations">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/screenshots/emoji.png" width="180" alt="Emoji Picker">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/screenshots/settings1.png" width="180" alt="Settings">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/screenshots/settings2.png" width="180" alt="Quick Replies">
</p>

## Features

### Conversation UI
- **iMessage-style chat bubbles** with rounded corners (9-slice pill textures) and optional bubble tails
- **Conversation list** on the left panel, sorted by most recent activity
- **Pinned conversations** — pin favorites to the top of the list
- **Unread badges** on conversations with new messages
- **"New Messages" separator** — visual divider when scrolling to unread messages
- **Date separators** — "Today", "Yesterday", "Jan 5" between messages on different days
- **Message previews** in the conversation list
- **Relative timestamps** (now, 5m, 2h, etc.) — hover any bubble for exact time
- **Resizable window** (350x400 to 700x800) with drag-to-move
- **Minimize to title bar** with the `-` button
- **ESC to close** — registered with the UI special frames system
- **Version displayed in title bar**

### Bubble Colors
- **Blue (right-aligned)** — your sent messages
- **Blue (left-aligned, lighter)** — incoming from friends
- **Green (left-aligned)** — incoming from non-friends

### Delivery Status
- **"Sent"** — gray indicator below your messages when delivery is confirmed by the server
- **"Failed"** — red indicator when the recipient is offline or not found

### Typing Indicator
- **Animated "typing..."** in the conversation header when you're typing in the input box
- Cycles through "typing." → "typing.." → "typing..." animation
- Auto-clears after 2 seconds of inactivity
- Toggle in Settings → Behavior

### Item Links
- **Clickable item/spell links** in chat bubbles — hover for tooltip, shift-click to link

### Search & Navigation
- **Search bar** — filter conversations by name or message content
- **Keyboard shortcuts** — Tab/Shift+Tab to cycle between conversations
- **Right-click context menu** — pin, mute, add note, or delete conversations

### Online Status & Notifications
- **Online status indicator** — green dot for online friends, gray for offline
- **Class-colored names** — friend names colored by their WoW class
- **Online/offline toast notifications** — popup at top of screen when a friend you've chatted with comes online or goes offline. Click the toast to open their conversation. Toggle in Settings → Behavior.

### Guild & Party Awareness
- **Guild rank** shown in conversation header (green)
- **Party role** with tank/healer/DPS icon (blue)
- **Raid membership** indicator (orange)
- Updates automatically on roster changes

### Account-Wide Conversations
- **Share conversations across characters** — optional toggle in Settings → Behavior
- When enabled, all characters on the account share one conversation history
- Intelligently migrates existing per-character data when toggling on
- Off by default — each character has separate history

### Contact Management
- **Add Friend / Block buttons** in the conversation header
- **Contact notes** — add a personal note for any contact (shown in header)
- **Per-contact mute** — suppress notification sounds for specific contacts
- **Pin conversations** — keep important contacts at the top of the list

### Compose & Quick Reply
- **Compose button** — start a new conversation with any player
- **5 configurable quick reply buttons** — set your own canned responses (afk, brb, etc.)
- **Send via Enter key** or the send button

### Auto-Reply
- **Configurable auto-reply** — automatically responds to incoming whispers with a custom message
- **One reply per contact per session** — prevents spam
- **Quick toggle** — `/ichat autoreply` to enable/disable

### Emoji
- **75+ bundled emoji** from Google's Noto Emoji — type `:shortcode:` to use (e.g. `:thumbsup:`, `:fire:`, `:heart:`)
- **Emoji picker button** next to the input box — click to browse and insert emoji
- **`/ichat emoji`** — prints all available emoji with previews to chat
- **Emoji-Core support** (optional) — if the Emoji-Core addon is installed, its emoji and autocomplete work alongside the built-in set

### Notification Sounds
- **3 built-in notification sounds** — Glass, Tritone, Chime
- **LibSharedMedia support** — any sounds registered by other addons (ElvUI, SharedMedia packs, etc.) appear as additional options
- **Taskbar flash** — the Windows taskbar icon flashes on incoming whisper

### Floating Button
- **Draggable floating button** — left-click to toggle window, right-click for settings
- **Faction-themed icon** — blue shield for Alliance, red shield for Horde
- **Unread badge** — red dot with count for unread messages
- **Whisper flash** — pulses on incoming whispers until you open iChat
- **Configurable button size** (24–64px) — slider in Settings → Behavior
- **Freely positionable** — drag anywhere on screen, position saved between sessions

### Settings Panel
- **Settings panel font size slider** (8–14) — adjust the settings UI text size with smooth live preview
- **Font selection dropdown** — 6 built-in WoW fonts, plus all LibSharedMedia fonts if available
- **Font size slider** (8–16) for chat bubbles
- **Background opacity slider** (30%–100%)
- **Message history slider** (50–500 messages per conversation)
- **Open on incoming whisper** toggle
- **Suppress default chat whispers** toggle
- **Display toggles** — date separators, hover timestamps, item links, class colors, online status
- **Behavior toggles** — keyboard shortcuts, minimap button, hide in combat, typing indicator, online/offline notifications, ElvUI theme, shared account
- **Auto-reply section** — enable/disable with custom message editor
- **Quick reply editor** — configure up to 5 quick reply messages
- **Export conversation** — copy conversation history as plain text
- **Clear history** — per-conversation or all conversations (with confirmation)

### ElvUI Integration
- **Auto-detect ElvUI** and match backdrop, border, and accent colors
- Only overrides font if you haven't explicitly chosen one
- Toggle in Settings → Behavior

### WeakAuras Integration
Custom events for WeakAuras triggers:
- `ICHAT_WHISPER_RECEIVED` (sender, text)
- `ICHAT_WHISPER_SENT` (target, text)
- `ICHAT_FRIEND_ONLINE` / `ICHAT_FRIEND_OFFLINE` (name)
- `ICHAT_UNREAD_CHANGED` (total)

### Auto-Fade
- Window fades to 25% opacity after 1.5 seconds when the mouse leaves
- Instantly restores on hover or incoming whisper
- Fade is disabled while the settings panel or emoji picker is open

### LibSharedMedia Integration
- Optional dependency — works without it, enhanced with it
- When [LibSharedMedia-3.0](https://www.curseforge.com/wow/addons/libsharedmedia-3-0) is available (bundled with ElvUI, etc.), all registered fonts and sounds appear in iChat's settings dropdowns

## Installation

1. Download and extract to your AddOns folder. The same folder works for all WoW versions — the client automatically loads the correct TOC file:

   | Version | AddOns Path | TOC File |
   |---------|-------------|----------|
   | Classic Era | `_classic_era_/Interface/AddOns/iChat/` | `iChat_Vanilla.toc` |
   | TBC Anniversary | `_anniversary_/Interface/AddOns/iChat/` | `iChat.toc` |
   | Retail | `_retail_/Interface/AddOns/iChat/` | `iChat-Mainline.toc` |

2. Restart WoW or `/reload` if already in-game.

## Usage

| Command | Action |
|---------|--------|
| `/ichat` | Toggle the iChat window |
| `/ichat clear` | Clear the active conversation's history |
| `/ichat export` | Export current conversation to copyable text |
| `/ichat scale <n>` | Set window scale (0.5–2.0) |
| `/ichat emoji` | Print all available emoji shortcodes to chat |
| `/ichat autoreply` | Toggle auto-reply on/off |
| `/ichat search <text>` | Search conversations |
| `/ichat version` | Show version and storage mode |

### Sending Messages
- Click a conversation on the left, or use the compose button (chat bubble icon) to start a new one
- Type in the input box and press **Enter** to send
- Click the smiley button to open the emoji picker
- Use quick reply buttons for canned responses

### Keyboard Shortcuts
- **Tab** — cycle to next conversation
- **Shift+Tab** — cycle to previous conversation
- **Escape** — close the window

### Context Menu
Right-click any conversation in the list for:
- **Pin / Unpin** — keep at top of list
- **Mute / Unmute** — suppress notification sounds
- **Add / Edit Note** — personal note for the contact
- **Delete Conversation** — remove conversation and history

### Emoji Shortcodes
Type `:name:` in your message — it renders as an inline icon in the chat bubble.

**Smileys:** `:grin:` `:smile:` `:laughing:` `:joy:` `:wink:` `:heart_eyes:` `:sunglasses:` `:thinking:` `:cry:` `:angry:` `:skull:` `:party:` and more

**Gestures:** `:thumbsup:` `:thumbsdown:` `:wave:` `:pray:` `:muscle:` `:clap:` `:ok_hand:`

**Symbols:** `:heart:` `:fire:` `:star:` `:100:` `:check:` `:x:` `:sparkles:` `:boom:` `:eyes:`

**Objects:** `:swords:` `:shield:` `:trophy:` `:crown:` `:gem:` `:beer:` `:dragon:` `:ghost:` `:rocket:`

## Saved Variables

iChat uses two storage modes:
- **`ICHAT_DATA`** (per-character) — default, each character has separate history
- **`ICHAT_ACCOUNT`** (account-wide) — optional, toggle "Share conversations across characters" in settings

Stored data includes:
- **Conversation history** — messages, timestamps, read state, delivery status
- **Settings** — font, font size, opacity, sound, quick replies, display/behavior toggles, auto-reply
- **Pinned conversations** — which contacts are pinned to the top
- **Contact notes** — personal notes per contact
- **Muted contacts** — contacts with suppressed notifications

Data persists across sessions. Use `/ichat clear` or the settings panel to manage history.

## Optional Dependencies

| Addon | What it adds |
|-------|-------------|
| [Emoji-Core](https://github.com/KittenBall/Emoji-Core) | Unicode emoji autocomplete in the input box, additional emoji rendering |
| [LibSharedMedia-3.0](https://www.curseforge.com/wow/addons/libsharedmedia-3-0) | Extra fonts and sounds from other addons appear in settings |
| [ElvUI](https://www.tukui.org/elvui) | Auto-applies ElvUI's color theme to iChat |
| [WeakAuras](https://www.curseforge.com/wow/addons/weakauras-2) | Expose iChat events for custom triggers |

## Compatibility

- **Classic Era** (1.15.x) — Interface 11508
- **TBC Classic Anniversary** (2.5.x) — Interface 20505
- **Retail** (12.x Midnight) — Interface 120001
- **Conflicts:** If using WIM (WoW Instant Messenger), iChat automatically disables "Suppress default chat whispers" to avoid double-suppression

## Credits

- **Author:** paradosi (Dreamscythe)
- **Emoji:** [Google Noto Emoji](https://github.com/googlefonts/noto-emoji) (Apache 2.0 License)
- **Emoji Integration:** [Emoji-Core](https://github.com/KittenBall/Emoji-Core) by KittenBall — optional emoji autocomplete and rendering library

Commit message:

docs: add file headers, inline comments, and Known Issues section
- Add TOC-style header comments to core.lua, config.lua, messages.lua,
  ui.lua, bubbles.lua, and settings.lua explaining each file's purpose
- Add inline comments for non-obvious patterns: class name reverse lookup,
  Retail vs Classic API differences, context menu version branching
- Add Known Issues section to README (WIM conflict, typing indicator
  limitation, ElvUI load order edge case)

README.md, after:

# iChat

An iMessage-style whisper client for World of Warcraft.

Replace the default whisper system with a modern messaging UI featuring chat bubbles, conversation threads, emoji, notification sounds, and more.

![Promo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/promo.png)

![Classic Era: 11508](https://img.shields.io/badge/Classic_Era-11508-yellow) ![TBC Anniversary: 20505](https://img.shields.io/badge/TBC_Anniversary-20505-blue) ![Retail: 120001](https://img.shields.io/badge/Retail-120001-green) ![Version: 1.3.2](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.3.2-lightgrey)

### Screenshots

<p>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/screenshots/main.png" width="180" alt="Conversations">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/screenshots/emoji.png" width="180" alt="Emoji Picker">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/screenshots/settings1.png" width="180" alt="Settings">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paradosi/iChat/master/media/art/screenshots/settings2.png" width="180" alt="Quick Replies">
</p>

## Features

### Conversation UI
- **iMessage-style chat bubbles** with rounded corners (9-slice pill textures) and optional bubble tails
- **Conversation list** on the left panel, sorted by most recent activity
- **Pinned conversations** — pin favorites to the top of the list
- **Unread badges** on conversations with new messages
- **"New Messages" separator** — visual divider when scrolling to unread messages
- **Date separators** — "Today", "Yesterday", "Jan 5" between messages on different days
- **Message previews** in the conversation list
- **Relative timestamps** (now, 5m, 2h, etc.) — hover any bubble for exact time
- **Resizable window** (350x400 to 700x800) with drag-to-move
- **Minimize to title bar** with the `-` button
- **ESC to close** — registered with the UI special frames system
- **Version displayed in title bar**

### Bubble Colors
- **Blue (right-aligned)** — your sent messages
- **Blue (left-aligned, lighter)** — incoming from friends
- **Green (left-aligned)** — incoming from non-friends

### Delivery Status
- **"Sent"** — gray indicator below your messages when delivery is confirmed by the server
- **"Failed"** — red indicator when the recipient is offline or not found

### Typing Indicator
- **Animated "typing..."** in the conversation header when you're typing in the input box
- Cycles through "typing." → "typing.." → "typing..." animation
- Auto-clears after 2 seconds of inactivity
- Toggle in Settings → Behavior

### Item Links
- **Clickable item/spell links** in chat bubbles — hover for tooltip, shift-click to link

### Search & Navigation
- **Search bar** — filter conversations by name or message content
- **Keyboard shortcuts** — Tab/Shift+Tab to cycle between conversations
- **Right-click context menu** — pin, mute, add note, or delete conversations

### Online Status & Notifications
- **Online status indicator** — green dot for online friends, gray for offline
- **Class-colored names** — friend names colored by their WoW class
- **Online/offline toast notifications** — popup at top of screen when a friend you've chatted with comes online or goes offline. Click the toast to open their conversation. Toggle in Settings → Behavior.

### Guild & Party Awareness
- **Guild rank** shown in conversation header (green)
- **Party role** with tank/healer/DPS icon (blue)
- **Raid membership** indicator (orange)
- Updates automatically on roster changes

### Account-Wide Conversations
- **Share conversations across characters** — optional toggle in Settings → Behavior
- When enabled, all characters on the account share one conversation history
- Intelligently migrates existing per-character data when toggling on
- Off by default — each character has separate history

### Contact Management
- **Add Friend / Block buttons** in the conversation header
- **Contact notes** — add a personal note for any contact (shown in header)
- **Per-contact mute** — suppress notification sounds for specific contacts
- **Pin conversations** — keep important contacts at the top of the list

### Compose & Quick Reply
- **Compose button** — start a new conversation with any player
- **5 configurable quick reply buttons** — set your own canned responses (afk, brb, etc.)
- **Send via Enter key** or the send button

### Auto-Reply
- **Configurable auto-reply** — automatically responds to incoming whispers with a custom message
- **One reply per contact per session** — prevents spam
- **Quick toggle** — `/ichat autoreply` to enable/disable

### Emoji
- **75+ bundled emoji** from Google's Noto Emoji — type `:shortcode:` to use (e.g. `:thumbsup:`, `:fire:`, `:heart:`)
- **Emoji picker button** next to the input box — click to browse and insert emoji
- **`/ichat emoji`** — prints all available emoji with previews to chat
- **Emoji-Core support** (optional) — if the Emoji-Core addon is installed, its emoji and autocomplete work alongside the built-in set

### Notification Sounds
- **3 built-in notification sounds** — Glass, Tritone, Chime
- **LibSharedMedia support** — any sounds registered by other addons (ElvUI, SharedMedia packs, etc.) appear as additional options
- **Taskbar flash** — the Windows taskbar icon flashes on incoming whisper

### Floating Button
- **Draggable floating button** — left-click to toggle window, right-click for settings
- **Faction-themed icon** — blue shield for Alliance, red shield for Horde
- **Unread badge** — red dot with count for unread messages
- **Whisper flash** — pulses on incoming whispers until you open iChat
- **Configurable button size** (24–64px) — slider in Settings → Behavior
- **Freely positionable** — drag anywhere on screen, position saved between sessions

### Settings Panel
- **Settings panel font size slider** (8–14) — adjust the settings UI text size with smooth live preview
- **Font selection dropdown** — 6 built-in WoW fonts, plus all LibSharedMedia fonts if available
- **Font size slider** (8–16) for chat bubbles
- **Background opacity slider** (30%–100%)
- **Message history slider** (50–500 messages per conversation)
- **Open on incoming whisper** toggle
- **Suppress default chat whispers** toggle
- **Display toggles** — date separators, hover timestamps, item links, class colors, online status
- **Behavior toggles** — keyboard shortcuts, minimap button, hide in combat, typing indicator, online/offline notifications, ElvUI theme, shared account
- **Auto-reply section** — enable/disable with custom message editor
- **Quick reply editor** — configure up to 5 quick reply messages
- **Export conversation** — copy conversation history as plain text
- **Clear history** — per-conversation or all conversations (with confirmation)

### ElvUI Integration
- **Auto-detect ElvUI** and match backdrop, border, and accent colors
- Only overrides font if you haven't explicitly chosen one
- Toggle in Settings → Behavior

### WeakAuras Integration
Custom events for WeakAuras triggers:
- `ICHAT_WHISPER_RECEIVED` (sender, text)
- `ICHAT_WHISPER_SENT` (target, text)
- `ICHAT_FRIEND_ONLINE` / `ICHAT_FRIEND_OFFLINE` (name)
- `ICHAT_UNREAD_CHANGED` (total)

### Auto-Fade
- Window fades to 25% opacity after 1.5 seconds when the mouse leaves
- Instantly restores on hover or incoming whisper
- Fade is disabled while the settings panel or emoji picker is open

### LibSharedMedia Integration
- Optional dependency — works without it, enhanced with it
- When [LibSharedMedia-3.0](https://www.curseforge.com/wow/addons/libsharedmedia-3-0) is available (bundled with ElvUI, etc.), all registered fonts and sounds appear in iChat's settings dropdowns

## Installation

1. Download and extract to your AddOns folder. The same folder works for all WoW versions — the client automatically loads the correct TOC file:

   | Version | AddOns Path | TOC File |
   |---------|-------------|----------|
   | Classic Era | `_classic_era_/Interface/AddOns/iChat/` | `iChat_Vanilla.toc` |
   | TBC Anniversary | `_anniversary_/Interface/AddOns/iChat/` | `iChat.toc` |
   | Retail | `_retail_/Interface/AddOns/iChat/` | `iChat-Mainline.toc` |

2. Restart WoW or `/reload` if already in-game.

## Usage

| Command | Action |
|---------|--------|
| `/ichat` | Toggle the iChat window |
| `/ichat clear` | Clear the active conversation's history |
| `/ichat export` | Export current conversation to copyable text |
| `/ichat scale <n>` | Set window scale (0.5–2.0) |
| `/ichat emoji` | Print all available emoji shortcodes to chat |
| `/ichat autoreply` | Toggle auto-reply on/off |
| `/ichat search <text>` | Search conversations |
| `/ichat version` | Show version and storage mode |

### Sending Messages
- Click a conversation on the left, or use the compose button (chat bubble icon) to start a new one
- Type in the input box and press **Enter** to send
- Click the smiley button to open the emoji picker
- Use quick reply buttons for canned responses

### Keyboard Shortcuts
- **Tab** — cycle to next conversation
- **Shift+Tab** — cycle to previous conversation
- **Escape** — close the window

### Context Menu
Right-click any conversation in the list for:
- **Pin / Unpin** — keep at top of list
- **Mute / Unmute** — suppress notification sounds
- **Add / Edit Note** — personal note for the contact
- **Delete Conversation** — remove conversation and history

### Emoji Shortcodes
Type `:name:` in your message — it renders as an inline icon in the chat bubble.

**Smileys:** `:grin:` `:smile:` `:laughing:` `:joy:` `:wink:` `:heart_eyes:` `:sunglasses:` `:thinking:` `:cry:` `:angry:` `:skull:` `:party:` and more

**Gestures:** `:thumbsup:` `:thumbsdown:` `:wave:` `:pray:` `:muscle:` `:clap:` `:ok_hand:`

**Symbols:** `:heart:` `:fire:` `:star:` `:100:` `:check:` `:x:` `:sparkles:` `:boom:` `:eyes:`

**Objects:** `:swords:` `:shield:` `:trophy:` `:crown:` `:gem:` `:beer:` `:dragon:` `:ghost:` `:rocket:`

## Saved Variables

iChat uses two storage modes:
- **`ICHAT_DATA`** (per-character) — default, each character has separate history
- **`ICHAT_ACCOUNT`** (account-wide) — optional, toggle "Share conversations across characters" in settings

Stored data includes:
- **Conversation history** — messages, timestamps, read state, delivery status
- **Settings** — font, font size, opacity, sound, quick replies, display/behavior toggles, auto-reply
- **Pinned conversations** — which contacts are pinned to the top
- **Contact notes** — personal notes per contact
- **Muted contacts** — contacts with suppressed notifications

Data persists across sessions. Use `/ichat clear` or the settings panel to manage history.

## Optional Dependencies

| Addon | What it adds |
|-------|-------------|
| [Emoji-Core](https://github.com/KittenBall/Emoji-Core) | Unicode emoji autocomplete in the input box, additional emoji rendering |
| [LibSharedMedia-3.0](https://www.curseforge.com/wow/addons/libsharedmedia-3-0) | Extra fonts and sounds from other addons appear in settings |
| [ElvUI](https://www.tukui.org/elvui) | Auto-applies ElvUI's color theme to iChat |
| [WeakAuras](https://www.curseforge.com/wow/addons/weakauras-2) | Expose iChat events for custom triggers |

## Compatibility

- **Classic Era** (1.15.x) — Interface 11508
- **TBC Classic Anniversary** (2.5.x) — Interface 20505
- **Retail** (12.x Midnight) — Interface 120001

## Known Issues

- **WIM conflict:** If WoW Instant Messenger (WIM) is installed, iChat automatically disables "Suppress default chat whispers" to avoid double-suppression.
- **Typing indicator is local-only** — only shows when *you* are typing. Cross-addon typing detection would require addon-to-addon messaging (both parties need iChat).
- **ElvUI skin** may not apply if ElvUI loads after iChat — a 1-second delay is used, but edge cases are possible. Toggle the setting off/on in that case.

## Credits

- **Author:** paradosi (Dreamscythe)
- **Emoji:** [Google Noto Emoji](https://github.com/googlefonts/noto-emoji) (Apache 2.0 License)
- **Emoji Integration:** [Emoji-Core](https://github.com/KittenBall/Emoji-Core) by KittenBall — optional emoji autocomplete and rendering library
